Previously, we defined what
it means to escalate
an incident.
We also discussed
the skills needed to
properly escalate incidents
when the time comes.
In this video, we're
going to cover
a few incident classification
types to be aware of:
malware infection,
unauthorized access,
and improper usage.
A malware infection
is the incident type
that occurs when malicious
software designed to
disrupt a system infiltrates
an organization's
computers or network.
As discussed in a
previous course,
malware infections can
come in many forms.
Some are simple and others
are a bit more complex.
One example is a
phishing attempt.
These are relatively
simple malware infections.
Another example is a
ransomware attack,
which is considered
much more complex.
Malware infections can cause
a system's network to run
an unusually low speeds.
Attackers can even prevent
an organization from
viewing critical data,
unless the organization pays
the attacker a ransom
to unlock the data.
This incident type is especially
impactful to an
organization because of
the amount of sensitive
data stored on
an organization's
network and computers.
Escalating malware infections is
an important aspect of
protecting the organization
that you work for.
But wait, there's more.
The second incident type we'll
discuss is unauthorized access.
This is an incident type that
occurs when an individual gains
digital or physical access to
a system or application
without permission.
As you may recall,
earlier in the program, we
discussed brute force attacks,
which use trial and error
to compromise passwords,
login credentials,
and encryption keys.
These attacks are often
used to help attackers gain
unauthorized access to an
organization's systems
or applications.
All unauthorized
access incidents
are important to escalate.
However, the urgency of that
escalation depends on how
critical that system is to
the organization's
business operations.
We'll explore this idea in
more detail later
in this course.
The third incident we'll
discuss is improper usage.
This is an incident type that
occurs when an employee of
an organization violates
the organization's
acceptable use policies.
This one can be a
bit complicated.
There are instances when
improper usage is unintentional.
For an example, an employee may
attempt to access
software licenses for
personal use or even use
a company's system to access a
friend's or coworker's data.
Maybe the employee
wasn't aware of
the policy they were violating,
or maybe the policy
wasn't properly
defined and communicated
to employees.
But there are other times when
improper usage is
an intentional act.
So how do you know if an
improper usage incident
is accidental or intentional?
That can be a difficult
decision to make.
That's why improper
usage incidents should
always be escalated
to a supervisor.
As a member of an
organization's security team,
it's likely that
you'll encounter
a variety of incident
types while on the job.
So it's important to know what they
are and how to escalate them.